# Analysis of Video Game Sales

This document details the analysis and evaluation of the profitability of video game genres in a diverse suite of geographic regions. This project utilizes the Kagel 'Video Game Sales' dataset to model the preference of gamers based on historical game sales.

The scale of the video game industry can at times be difficult to grasp. With a catelog of titles dating back to the classic Atari pong, the video game industry has ballooned to $155 billion in 2020, with expectations of the industry surging to \$200 billion in 2023 [2]. As the scale of the video game industry continues to increase, so too is the ferocity of competition between developers aiming at becoming the next major gaming phenomina. With highly sucessful titles like 'Fortnite' generating revenues exceess of $300 million in April 2020 alone, developers are facing the problem of increasing pressure from investors to find the next highly successful gaming genre [3].

This project aims to better understand game sales (based on game genre) by utilizing historcal game sales of similar style games. The purpose of this project is to assist developers in better understanding how their prospective games will perform in a given sales market, by leveraging historical data from a simlar sales region. This paper proposes a predictive model to simulate the performance of future games in a given genre. The project seeks to produce the following key results: predict posterior values from game sales through both simuation and credible intervals, validate if the model results agree with historical observations made.
